Empty States pattern topic created (#459)
IgniteUI/indigo-design-docfx: en/patterns/empty-states.md

---
title: Empty States - Design System Pattern

> _description: The Empty States Patterns can be used to give meaningful feedback to the user when there is no content to show

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_description: The Empty State Patterns can be used to give meaningful feedback to the user when there is no meaningful content to show
```

_keywords: Design Systems, Design Systems UX, UI kit, Sketch, Ignite UI for Angular, Sketch to Angular, Angular, Angular Design System, Export code from Sketch, Design Kits for Angular, Sketch HTML, Sketch to HTML, Sketch UI kits
---

# Empty States

> Use the Empty States Patterns to provide the users with helpful information when there is no content to show due to a system error or when there are no results to be displayed when a filter is applied to encourage them to interact with your product. Usually an empty screen without any type of guidance or exact explanation can confuse users and prevent them from using your product or service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Empty State Patterns to tell the user that there is no content to show due to a system error or when there are no results to be displayed e.g. when a filter is applied. Use them to encourage your users to interact with the product and avoid designs without any type of guidance or exact explanation as they confuse users and prevent them from using the product.
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/empty-states_demo.png" srcset="../images/empty-states_demo@2x.png 2x" />

> The Empty States Patterns come with the styling flexibility provided by the Navbar and Button that constitute their layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Empty State Patterns come with the styling flexibility provided by the Navbar, Illustration, and Button that constitute their layout.
```

> > [!Note]
> > Illustrations nested inside the Pattern Symbols cannot be code generated and Illustration itself has to be inserted manually.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [!WARNING]

> > After inserting an Empty States Pattern, you should trigger `Detach from Symbol` in order to be able to generate it as Angular code. The individual Components, however, must stay intact and not be detached!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> After inserting an Empty State Pattern, you should trigger `Detach from Symbol` in order to be able to generate it as Angular code. Illustrations nested inside the Pattern cannot be code generated and the Illustration itself has to be inserted manually after that step. Individual Components must stay intact and not be detached!
```

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/empty-states_detach.png" srcset="../images/empty-states_detach@2x.png 2x" />

## Additional Resources

Related topics:

> - [Button](../components/button.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Illustrations](../style/illustrations.md)
- [Button](../components/button.md)
```
